# sound-journey

Project Name:
Sully 2.0


Project Description:

This website is an interactive 8D audio experience of a turbulent flight with an overall theme of tragedy.
The surround sound effect makes the user experience immersive. An emphasis is placed on the auditory senses whilst ensuring that the visuals do not dominate as much. This was done by creating a minimalistic website with enough features to allow intuitive access to the user. The visuals were curated with the sole purpose of "complementing" the audio rather than narrate the entire story by itself. There is one single visible picture and it is the background photo of the view of a plane from the back to slightly enhance the experience more. This is the reason why the passengers' faces were not shown, so as not to allow the user to focus their attention to any characters. Some effects appear on the screen with the progression of the events during the recording to stimulate the attention of the user and draw on their emotions. We strive to create an emotional experience that targets the feelings of the user to get them attached to the fictional characters in the recording and those who suffered from plane crashes in general. The 8D aspect also reels the user into focusing more on the audio. The same auditory focus was carried onto the "About" page by incorporating an audio equivalent of a "screengrab" of the cast.
We were striving to create a realistic experience for the user where they forget that they are browsing on the internet and rather live the moment and get to hear, see, and feel whatever the characters are going through during the tragic experience.


Process:

We first brainstormed for a while to decide on the main theme of our project, and the idea of simulating an airplane crash came up quite quickly, actually. We named the project "Sully 2.0" based on the 2016 film titled "Sully" which starred Tom Hanks and revolved around a true story of an emergency landing in 2009 of a US Airways flight on the Hudson River. Our story is quite different from that of the movie and is much simpler but we wanted to iconize our website by referencing a well-known similar incident. We then created a Google Document and started writing down our ideas and commenting on one another's comments. We started drafting our script for the recording which included conversational dialogue as well as complementary sound effects. We did not know how to design our website except for having a simple gray navigation bar with the title and the About on the right, a moving airplane cartoon that takes off slowly, and the recording with visible sound waves at the bottom. We then tested our script by each of us recording their part and then playing them all together with some sound effects we got from YouTube and other free sound platforms to see how long it was. The recording was in fact about 5 minutes long, so we had to cut a significant portion from the dialogue in order to fit the time limit. 
We then presented our ideas and progress to the class and took note of the numerous comments we received from Pierre and our peers. The feedback included making the picture the background to make the scene more realistic and interesting, adding oxygen masks which fall from the top as soon as the emergency arises, making the screen shake around, making the play button smaller in size, and making it clear that our images in the About page actually contain audio excerpts of each of us from the recording. We made all of these changes, added some extra screams and cries for help towards the end, delayed the replies of the conversation so it makes more sense, and we remade some minor recordings to make the recording improve. Ater a lot of several trials and errors, we were able to finalize our recording. We then decided to stick to our theme of aviation tragedy on the About page by designing an "International Passport'' (coping with the idea of us being global leaders in NYUAD) that was inspired from an image on the Internet, and put our own realistic data inside each of the four copies of the template. We took excerpts from the recording of us respectively and as you hover each of the passports the cursor changes to sound symbol and automatically plays the short audio of each character. We finalized the content of the About page and added social media links in the footer to help future branding of our website, and we refined the animations we designed for the main page to enhance the user experience further. We made the background turn green when the captain speaks on the microphone, oxygen masks bounce downwards as the emergency situation arises, the screen darken to black as the situation becomes more dangerous, and the screen shake and tilt as the turbulence worsens. We decided to make the ending open ended to encourage the user to make their own assumptions and engage more with the webpage. Even though they can hear ambulance/police sirens at the ended and voices of people in pain screaming (indicating some people were able to survive and the plane was actually found in time), the user does not know if the plane crashed or if it just made an emergency landed, whether they landed on land or sea, and whether all or just some of the passengers made it alive after the accident. 


Reflection/Evaluation: 

Our goals and expectations were generally met in the process of building the final version of the platform because of the excessive engagement the page induces whilst the user is listening to the recording. We were able to make the sound effects and dialogue seem very realistic and intense and asked many people other than ourselves to make sure that the experience is enjoyable. We added to the theme by making the About page follow the same idea through our "International Passports" which contribute to the overall theme and make the experience more realistic and enjoyable.
The one thing we wished to have done was to have more time because we wanted to have media interviews with one of the passengers which outlines what exactly happened and what they advise future passengers to do (essentially focusing on how not turning devices to Airplane Mode might seriously damage the flight and cause crashes). We also had several ideas on how the experience could be enhanced much more using actual animations and by changing the images for each sub-scene in the recording but the project requirements limit us to focusing on just the sound effects rather than visual designing. 
